---
name: Giuseppe
date: '2007-03-08T00:55:52-05:00'
url: ''
email: 3a987048581f3159390be8bc88d2a783
_id: 125f999f-7799-4c72-bf31-22d1b6b5bdff
slug: '/its-all-text/'
---

Fantastic add-on! Until updated to 0.4.2 ... [using Firefox 2.0.0.2 under XP]

This is somehow related to previous postings about using It'sAllText (IAT)
with moinmoin wiki. That's in fact my main use of IAT, and the main reason why
I moved from mozex. Mozex was fine until I upgraded firefox to 2.0, when it
stopped updating across 'previews'. So I moved to It'sAllText 0.4.1 and it was
fantastic. Mind you, there is a little trick to make it work with moinmoin: if
the URL of the page open for editing is "XYZ", the URL after the first preview
changes to "XYZ#preview", so with mozex (before it broke) as well as with IAT
0.4.1 I needed to click on the preview button _before_ starting the external
editor. I could then save changes any number of times and do any number of
previews without need to restart the editor.

The problem is now that this does not work any longer in IAT 0.4.2. After
clicking on 'preview', the text field is no longer updated. This is a real
pity, since this feature (being able to edit wiki pages with an external
editor) is the main reason I was using IAT, but as it is now it's easier to
just do cut&amp;paste from an editor into the text field...

If you want to try the 'preview' feature yourself, go to

    http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/WikiSandBox

or to

    http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/SandBox

This last site also shows another problem, the little 'edit' icon is displayed
far below the bottom edge of the text field. I am not sure if this is a
problem with IAT or with the html layout of the particular page.

Best regards,

Giuseppe
