---
name: docwhat
date: '2007-03-08T10:22:39-05:00'
url: http://docwhat.org/
email: 2721fe8ffd609b6df0d4b734defc9cd5
_id: ecf334a5-00a3-4664-9a1f-b9b7e718e2ee
slug: "/its-all-text/"
template: comment

---

@Guisepee: 

There are two things that broke this behavior:
<ol>
  <li>I started using the #hashpart of the url to uniquely identify a url.  This is probably the wrong thing to do, so I changed that in the next version.</li>
  <li>IAT starts looking for the file on disk only after the user clicks edit.</li>
</ol>

The second change is the harder to deal with one.  Previously I had this flow:

<ol>
  <li>Load page
  <ol>
    <li>delete all files for textareas in this page</li>
  </ol>
  </li>
  <li>If file updates on disk then refresh the textarea</li>
  <li>If user clicks edit:
  <ol>
    <li>If file doesn't exist, then create it</li>
    <li>Open editor on file</li>
  </ol>
  </li>
</ol>

However, this causes problems because if a user visits the same page twice, then they can end up deleting already done work.

If I remove the <em>delete all files</em> on page load, then if you visit a page you already visited then it'll update all your textareas with stale information.

So I changed the flow to not delete files on the disk, but it doesn't start looking for updates on the disk until you click the edit button.

I think what I'll do is add a dialog when the user clicks edit asking the user what they want to do.  This should eliminate confusion and prevent accidental deletion of data.

Any suggestions are welcome, though. :-D

Ciao!

PS: regarding the edit button being in the wrong place, I fixed it for Trac, but it's broken in other places.  It's very annoying. I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong.  Sigh.

