---
name: suavecali@yahoo.com
date: '2015-09-30T02:01:15-04:00'
url: ''
email: 1656577e3e00298542d6d6a364aa91b2
_id: d6795dcf-6fe6-40e8-a0dc-4961d0402da6
slug: '/chef-puppet-heat-juju-docker-etc/'
---

In puppet, you can encrypt passwords using hiera. You can test with
rspec-puppet and beaker. There's also equivalent of Berkshelf with r10k. The
DSL is very powerful, and avoids rocket science projecst on top of chef with
raw Ruby (a lot of hackerrific stories in the community) but you can extend
puppet in your modules that can be written in Ruby if needed, like LWRP in
chef. Separate from Puppet, there's MCollective, which is similar to Salt
Stack in being a distributed remote execution environment.

Provisioning orchestration can be built upon these, to get some similar
features one can get with specific tools like Chef-Metal. CFEngine3 did what
Chef-Metal machine resource with the guest_environment promise. Thus, they had
this before Chef reinvented it. Also, for orchestrated apps packaged in
containers, there's more robust tools than Chef-Metal with Kubernetes and
Mesosphere.

Ansible has not taken lessons from chef/puppet, and is its own thing. It is
push tech, so has similarities to fabric, Capistrano, Mina, etc., and a lot of
tooling you get with Chef Server or Puppet Master, you'd have to code from
ground zero. Though Tower addreses some of that. Ansible doesn't scale, and
doesn't have a lot of the abstraction needed for a good change config system,
but that may In puppet, you can encrypt passwords using hiera. You can test
with rpec-puppet and beaker. There's also equivalent of Berkshelf with r10k.
The DSL is very powerful, and avoids rocket science project on top of chef
with raw Ruby, but you can extend puppet in your modules that can be written
in Ruby, like LWRP. Separate from Puppet, there's MCollective, which is
similar to Salt Stack in being a distributed remote execution environment.
Provisioning orchestration can be built upon these, to get some similar
features one can get with specific tools like Chef-Metal. CFEngine3 did what
Chef-Metal machine resource with guest_environment promise. Also, for
containers, there's more robust tools than Chef Metal with Kubernetes and
Mesosphere. with major release...
