---
name: Debbie
date: '2007-06-01T14:05:43-04:00'
url: http://www.greenwavestrategies.com
email: 6471cf579c831724e5c92fdc80fc7491
_id: 24304dd5-7883-41a0-9ad3-5e825b37b335
slug: '/junkmail/'
---

Hi, I'm a co-founder of the 41 Pounds junk mail reduction
service www.41pounds.org. Thanks for initiating this great discussion about
junk mail.  
The 41 Pounds service reduces household junk mail by 85-90% and lasts for 5
years - at a cost of $8.20 per year ($41 total). We donate more than 1/3 of
your fee to the nonprofit organization you select. We've already raised more
than \$45,000 for environmental and community organizations - including
StopGlobalWarming.org, Trees for the Future, American Forests, New American
Dream and Habitat for Humanity (East Bay).

About doing it yourself -- yes, you can do all the leg-work yourself to remove
yourself from all the direct mail and catalog lists out there, but it will
take you quite awhile. We personally contact 20 to 35 direct marketing
companies and catalog companies (only the ones your select) and instruct them
to remove your name from their distribution lists. We provide you with
pre-addressed, stamped postcards to mail yourself to the marketing companies
that require a signature. And, you can contact us any time during your 5-year
subscription period to add more household members to your service, report a
change of address or a change in your name (got married?), add more catalogs
to be blocked, etc. Our customers tell us it's worth every cent.

Please go to www.41pounds.org and look at what others are saying about 41
Pounds to see just a few of the many letters and emails we receive from happy
customers who are no longer dealing with the hassle of junk mail. You can also
learn about the environmental and community organizations we’re donating to.
If any questions remain, please feel free to contact me directly at any time,
tim@41pounds.org Let's all stop junk mail and save trees, water, energy, and
time!

-   Tim
