---
name: tacitdynamite
date: '2008-10-12T12:49:49-04:00'
url: ''
email: 82e455d4f846edb1ab1396fc013b9bae
_id: 82bd8852-5663-4ee4-aa2a-5a6710f3d680
slug: "/its-all-text-v080/"
template: comment

---

@Ann - Sorry, I'm not familiar really with OS-X, but I would GUESS that "open" is a specific version of the "exec" command, so you are being redundant by putting exec and open on the same line.   I believe "open" is not part of bash per se, but it part of the apple flavor unix, whereas "exec" IS part of bash.  Maybe try using "exec" and pointing it to the actual executable?  

@docwhat - Thanks for the link to TinyMCE; I hadn't seen that before.  From what I can tell by a cursory glance at TinyMCE and from what I assume to be true about Google Docs, they are the same in principle, but not in practice.  They both leverage javascript to generate html text.  I have a feeling that Google Docs was created with Google Web Kit, which generates (cross-browser and OS compatible) javascript from java code.  I have no idea how Google Docs actually captures keystrokes, though; if you open up a new Google Document and view the source, it's close to two thousand lines, and a quick search for 'textarea' turns up nothing.  I can picture an easy little greasemonkey script that would add a textarea, though, and then copy the value of the textarea edited in an external editor into the document (copy and paste work fine).  

Hey everybody, in case you didn't know, the "View Source With" plugin for firefox is a great sister plugin to this one.  Once you've written your script to load text into gvim, you can use it with "View Source With" to easily view source in gvim by default - leveraging it's pretty printing and formatting abilibities.  Yay!
