---
name: Marianna Hampton
date: '2013-02-07T15:30:25-05:00'
url: http://www.leiasfundforanimals.org*
email: 9c1b715e086875399a967aa5a48d089a
_id: dee5b443-6573-457a-85b0-7d2996aa165d
slug: "/dr-ross-o-d/"
template: comment

---

I can't believe that there is another Dr. Ross O.D. that has a great staff; treats patients as people.

Here is "my" Dr. Ross.

Peter W. Ross, O.D.  http://www.familyeyecare.com/images/pic-md-ross1.jpg

Dr. Ross has been practicing Optometry in the Campbell-San Jose area for thirty years. He started Family EyeCare Center (FEC) to serve the vision care needs of the local community in a family friendly way. He thinks of the FEC staff as a family of people working together to help the eye care needs of the patients.
Dr. Ross has had a special interest in preventative eye care and contact lenses especially the more complicated designs for Orthokeratology (vision improvement), astigmatism and bifocal types. He has served as a consultant on a number of contact lens companies and has helped design and improve many of the contact lenses in use today. Dr. Ross is a published author and noted lecturer on the finer points of contact lens care.
Dr. Ross has also been quite active in the area of children's vision and developmental vision as it relates to learning and perception. He has worked with thousands of children in these areas. Dr. Ross is a graduate of the Pennsylvania College of Optometry where he received his doctorate degree and completed his undergraduate work at Thiel College. He's a member of the Orthokeratology Society, California Optometric Association and Santa Clara Optometric Society. Dr. Ross and his wife, Carol, have been married for over 25 years and have 5 children. He is active with the children in soccer, theater, and church activities. He enjoys skiing, biking and family activities.

The * after my website will be answered in another email.

Marianna =^ ^=
