---
name: Kendra
date: '2007-05-30T16:23:58-04:00'
url: http://www.greendimes.com
email: fa3c470fc17e504db094a901c56f2433
_id: 83c2dbec-291c-415e-8490-9506d3941247
slug: "/junkmail/"
layout: comment

---

<blockquote style="color: red;">Note: This message was sent originally via my <a href="/email" rel="nofollow">Email-Me</a> page because I broke the comments earlier today.  Since I had to reformat this, formatting errors are probably mine. :-(<br />-docwhat</blockquote>

Hi Christian-

I just tried to reply to your message on the blog and was unable to I get an error message. However, thank you for your reply- I am more than happy to share the specifics of our service with you. For our GreenDimes membership, we:

1)  Plant a tree a month for each member with one of our three tree-planting partners- American Forests, Sustainable Harvest International and Trees for the Future (all of whom you can learn about in the 'partners' section of our website).

2)  Process your name(s) and address for removal from roughly a dozen direct marketing lists.  We have systems in place to verify whether or not these direct marketing organizations have actually honored our opt-out request and follow-up to ensure this happens.                                                         
                                                                                3)  Mail each household a set of stamped, addressed postcards for you to sign and put in the mail.  (this helps reduce unaddressed "residen" and "occupant" mail)                                                                           
                                                                                
4)  We will opt you out of as many catalogs and "other" items that you ask us to.  We consider "junk mail" to be credit card offers, insurance offers, sweepstakes offers and coupon mailers and we stop each of these automatically for all members.   If there is something that you would like stopped that falls outside of what we consider to be "junk mail", then we ask you to login to your account to submit a stop request for those items.

In addition to the items listed above, we are working toward implementing an improved feedback mechanism so our members can let us know which items they'are continuing to receive, if items need to be processed again, if items have stopped, etc.  We care a great deal about making a difference in our member's lives and will do whatever we can to make sure our service works for them.  If something is or isn't working for our members, we definitely want to know about it!  We more than WELCOME feedback, good or bad.

I have a few screenshots of our member profile for you to look at. Just send me your email address and I will get those to you asap (they don't copy and paste into this format). Take good care and thanks again for your interest in GreenDimes!

-Kendra
www.greendimes.com
