---
name: Thomas Baker
date: '2008-03-04T12:36:44-05:00'
url: ''
email: 1baea1b67a9552a5d4d4f4090e5a5cdb
_id: 586aa5f4-a479-4e9a-8382-e6273d35f983
slug: "/its-all-text-v080/"
layout: comment

---

Thank you, RH.  I actually am using gvim now (or rather the 
bundled console variant C:\Program Files\Vim\vim71\vim.exe).

The problem is that I would prefer to use my regular Cygwin vim 
(and .vimrc) -- it runs on Cygwin, understands the Cygwin filename 
conventions, and calls external Cygwin commands that require the 
Cygwin DLL (such as /bin/fmt).  If I keep using gvim, I would have 
to maintain separate vimrc configuration files.

(Some background: from http://cygwin.com:
"Cygwin is a Linux-like environment for Windows. 
It consists of two parts: A DLL (cygwin1.dll) which acts as a 
Linux API emulation layer providing substantial Linux API functionality.
A collection of tools which provide Linux look and feel.")

The problem is that while clicking on <code>file://localhost/e:/foo/bar.txt</code>
in gvim's vim.exe will call up "bar.txt", clicking on the same using text.bat (see 
above) tries to call up "C:Documents" and exits with an error.  

text.bat used to work fine with Mozex, so I went back to check my
notes and see that I actually configured Mozex with:

    E:\u\config\text.bat %t

So the problem is perhaps that the filename needs to be explicitly
passed to text.bat, otherwise a default starting with "C:\Documents "
is used, leading to the results above.

However, if I configure "It's all Text" using the additional "%t", I 
get the error message "The path 'e:\u\config\text.bat %t' does not 
exist."

Tom
