---
name: era
date: '2007-03-31T06:01:42-04:00'
url: ''
email: c4ea7da22fd3dfccba6f34ce42482454
_id: ca20f2c5-56d3-47f7-9fc7-b675464c8593
slug: "/its_all_text_v06/"
layout: comment

---

Now it didn't strip my backslashes!! They should be only double in the above, not quadruple.  Could this be a bug in the extension actually?  Because the previous comment was submitted via IAT but now I didn't use it, coincidentally because I got an error message:



<blockquote>It's All Text! was unable to open your editor

&gt; Unable to open your editor

I was unable to run your editor.  You can now either cancel your
editor or you can use the preferences to choose a new editor.
Please make sure that you use the full path to the editor and
that the editor is executable.  Thank you.

| Reason:
| 
| [Exception... "Component returned failure code: 0x80520003
| (NS_ERROR_FILE_EXECUTION_FAILED) [nsIProcess.run]"
| nsresult: "0x80520003
| (NS_ERROR_FILE_EXECUTION_FAILED)" location: "JS frame ::
| <code>chrome://itsalltext/content/cacheobj.js</code> :: anonymous :: line
| 253" data: no]

[Cancel] [Preferences]</blockquote>



It would be great if the text in the error dialog could be copy/pasted instead of retyped, BTW. (Also, isn't there a HIG recommendation somewhere that programs should not be antropomorphized to speak to the user in the first person?  So perhaps change "I was unable" to "It's All Text! was unable", or some such. Also "cancel your editor" seems slightly off the mark; how about just "cancel this operation" ... although that sounds too much like jargon?)

I checked the "debugging" option but it doesn't appear to have added any more reporting.  It did actually create a file for me to edit, oddly with an .xhtml extesion instead of .txt (so perhaps that needs to be changed in the regex I posted above, too).

(Actually, the explanation "Remove all bugs" is perhaps a little too humorous, and probably confuses the heck out of newbies.)
