---
name: docwhat
date: '2007-07-12T08:55:48-04:00'
url: http://docwhat.gerf.org/
email: 2721fe8ffd609b6df0d4b734defc9cd5
uuid: f6a62cd5-44dd-4edb-b007-13731d98a9d4
slug: "/its_all_text_v06/"
layout: comment

---

teemu:

I really have no idea how IAT could be causing this. It doesn't mean it isn't, but it's sort of like saying that changing your car's radio station is causing your tires to loose pressure.  If there is a causal relationship, it is complicated and unpredictable.

When you uninstall IAT (not disable it) then the files are removed, nothing is left.  There will be some preferences set in <tt>prefs.js</tt>, but they all start with "extensions.itsalltext" and should have zero effect on Mozilla.

So here's what we know for sure:
<ul>
  <li>The page is being servered with a <tt>Content-Type</tt> that Firefox is deciding you need to download (or possibly no Content-Type).</li>
  <li>Internet Explorer tries to view it as HTML anyway (no suprise).</li>
  <li>You said that it happened when you installed IAT and it did not go away when you uninstall IAT.</li>
</ul>

If you have access to <tt>wget</tt> (<a href="http://users.ugent.be/~bpuype/wget/" rel="nofollow">windows download</a>) try running this command (changing the URL from my homepage to the URL of the page you are trying to view):
[code lang="shell" light="true"]
wget -O- -q --save-headers http://docwhat.gerf.org/
[/code]

You should see a line like: [code light="true"]Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8[/code]

If you get some other Content-Type other than "text/html" then that is the problem.  The charset shouldn't be relevant to this problem.

If the above turns up nothing and you absolutely feel that it might be IAT, you can:
<ol>
  <li> Create a new profile in Mozilla. </li>
  <li> Try the problem page with the new profile. If it breaks then it's not IAT otherwise continue&hellip; </li>
  <li> Install IAT. </li>
  <li> Try the problem page again.
       <ul>
         <li> If it works, then it isn't IAT. </li>
         <li> If it breaks then something very weird is wrong with IAT. I would need the output of the wget command from above (without the grep) to even start to debug the problem. </li>
       </ul>
  </li><li>
</li></ol>

Ciao!

PS: This website is all PHP and it isn't causing any problems for you.
