---
name: Mario
date: '2010-08-04T16:12:11-04:00'
url: ''
email: 17c19b6cd04befd3a1004ec15bf4d451
uuid: bceab8a2-5dfb-4a24-a4b0-026b55203946
slug: "/sourdough-starter/"
layout: comment

---

Actually the process of just using flour and water as a yeast starter is one that is used to capture wild yeast. You can most certainly make a yeast starter from yeast you buy. There is nothing wrong with that. I do it all the time in beer making and have done it for sourdough as well. So, apart from the mention of baking soda (never heard of that), docwhat's process isn't wrong at all.

If you want your yeast to have a distinctive regional flavor, then definitely go the wild yeast capturing route ... this is in fact the reason why San Francisco sourdough tastes different from say New York or Chicago ... the yeast used are regional.

A further note, while there is definitely yeast in flour (there's actually yeast in everything, just about), when you make a yeast starter with just flour and water you are mostly getting your yeast from the air. And also, there isn't a 'proper' sourdough yeast per-se. Sourdough gets its tangy flavor from the fermentation process the starter is allowed to go through. Each strain of yeast (and there are more that 1500) imparts its own signature as well. You can get strains of yeast to make your sourdough taste like, for instance, San Francisco sourdough ... but it isn't a 'sourdough' yeast so much as the strain of yeast used by most San Francisco sourdough makers.
