---
name: Margot Brown
date: '2007-05-30T20:26:58-04:00'
url: http://www.stopthejunkmail.com
email: 56cba8dcdac1e3261007c16611686c86
_id: d8ac5afb-2212-4434-9f36-ca43989baa30
slug: "/junkmail/"
template: comment

---

<blockquote style="color: red;">Note: This message was sent originally via my <a href="/email" rel="nofollow">Email-Me</a> page because I broke the comments earlier today. Since I had to reformat this, formatting errors are probably mine.<br />-docwhat</blockquote>

Hi, 

We are also a legitimate company and pride ourselves in being in this business since 2001. We have been helping our subscribers opt out of postal junk mail successfully for 6 years.

Of course you may stop postal junk mail yourself and we encourage everybody to get out there and have a go at it! There are a number of things you must do in order to accomplish this. The first step is to go to the DMA Mail preference service which costs $1 per transaction and they will suppress your name for 5 years. The 2nd step is to opt out from the major credit card companies such as Experian, Equifax and Trans Union who will also suppress your name for 5 years. If you do it yourself you must be aware that it will take 2-3 mail cycles before you see a reduction in your junk mail, this is by no means an immediate process.

The hardest part of doing it yourself is continually calling catalogers, magazines, charities, banks, credit cards companies, Insurance and many other direct mailers to ask them to remove your name. But you must also ask for them not to rent or sell your name or you will be right back on those mailing lists! The process is a task that must be closely monitored and repeated as needed. Our service allows our subscribers to do this in one place plus we keep a record of what they have stopped so they can easily keep track of their work. We have over 10,000 researched direct mail companies in our database and it is always growing as subscribers tell us about new companies. 

 It is up to a consumer to decide whether they wish to join a service such as ours or go for it themselves. 

We whole heartedly encourage both methods to reduce junk mail as in the long run we are all helping to decrease the waste of resources such as water and trees. Plus we are protecting our subscribers personal Information by allowing them to opt out in a more efficient manner. 

We also guarantee that if our subscribers do not get the expected result we will happily refund their money and help them do it themselves.

Margot Brown
www.stopthejunkmail.com

