---
name: docwhat
date: '2007-06-13T08:57:41-04:00'
url: http://docwhat.gerf.org/
email: 2721fe8ffd609b6df0d4b734defc9cd5
_id: cb17c839-be47-4cba-8719-3f97523de0d2
slug: "/its_all_text_v06/"
template: comment

---

mc:

Thanks for your feedback.

Can you help me?

I just rewrote the Mac OS X instructions again.  This is what they currently say:
<blockquote>
    <p>
      Out of the box, <span class="iat">It's All Text!</span> uses the <code>open</code> program. <code>open</code> behaves like double clicking on a file.  It uses the type of the file to choose the correct application to run;  for <tt>.txt</tt> files, that application is the built-in text editor.
    </p>
    <p>
      If this behavior is fine for you, then leave the editor option alone and enjoy!
    </p>
    <p>
      However, if you want to use a different editor or to force the same editor regardless of the file type, then you will need to do something a little more complicated.
    </p>
    <p>
      Firefox <a href="https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=307463" rel="nofollow">cannot run .app applications directly</a>.  To run a program in Mac OS X you need to do one of two things:  If your editor comes with a non-<code>.app</code> version, then use that.  Otherwise you have to write a shell script.
    </p>
    <p>
      Check your editor's documentation; if it comes with a standalone program, usually located in the <code>/usr/bin/</code> directory, then you can enter that into the <span class="iat">It's All Text!</span> preferences and you're done.
    </p>
    <p>
      Otherwise, you need to create a shell script.  Here are the basic steps to create a shell script:
    </p>
    <ol>
      <li> Open your favorite editor. </li>
      <li> Create a file like the example below. </li>
      <li> Save it to your home directory: <code>~/iat.sh</code> </li>
      <li> Open a terminal window. </li>
      <li> Type this command to make the shell script executable: <code>chmod +x ~/iat.sh</code> </li>
      <li> In <span class="iat">It's All Text!</span> preferences, use the shell script as your editor. </li>
    </ol>

    <p>
      The example shell script.  Replace <code>/path/to/editor.app</code> with the actual path to your .app file.  It'll probably be something like <code>/Applications/MyEditor.app</code>.
    </p>

[code lang="shell"]
#!/bin/sh
# This is an example shell script for It's All Text!

open -a /path/to/editor.app $*
[/code]

    <p>
      Other alternative shell scripts are available at <a href="http://docwhat.gerf.org/2007/03/its_all_text_v06/#comment-2054" rel="nofollow">here</a>.
    </p>
</blockquote>

Thanks again.

Ciao!
