---
name: Peter Jenkins
date: '2008-01-10T13:12:13-05:00'
url: ''
email: db37c864dd0ae55d20926a183c3353af
_id: 672877df-f85f-4c2d-8435-ff2bc0495d68
slug: "/its-all-text-v080/"
template: comment

---

First off: this program is nothing short of amazing!

I've been wanting something like this for so long!

I'm afraid I have to second the request to have an option to turn off the yellow animation. It's cool, I just find it distracting when I'm going in and out of the editor. Because my editor pops up on another monitor, I have a hard time staying focused on that monitor when there's something moving (changing color) on the other monitor. 

I know it's already on your list, I just wanted to second the suggestion, and let you know it's not that it's a bad feature, I just have a hard time staying focused on what I'm doing when there's something glowing on the other monitor :)

Thanks again, this program is quite invaluable and you've put out some great karma into the world by making it gpl'd.

Best,
Peter

[edit: on the other hand, it's actually nice when you exit out of the editor. If you could, you might make it so that you can turn off the animation when entering the editor separately from turning off the animation when you exit the editor. Then I'd probably leave on the exiting animation, but given both or nothing I'd probably have to choose nothing. Also, I don't know how involved it would be, but you might have a speed setting to say how long the animation lasts. I'd definitely put that secondary on my list to being able to turn it off though. ]

[edit: I forgot it's gpl'd and I might be able to make some changes myself... do you have a repository for it? I couldn't see where to download the source code...]
