---
name: Debbie
date: '2007-06-04T13:35:20-04:00'
url: http://www.greenwavestrategies.com
email: 6471cf579c831724e5c92fdc80fc7491
_id: 1485643b-7365-4226-933e-e9fff905d9c2
slug: "/junkmail/"
layout: comment

---

Doc What:

Yes.  That was embarrassing!  I am working closely with Tim Pfannes, co-founder of 41 Pounds.  My primary role is to help them to develop great fundraising partnerships with non-profits (Tim and his brothers donate more than 1/3 of each customer's fee to partner organizations).  

The founders of 41 Pounds are personally focused on taking their customers off of junk mail lists - and making that aspect of their service as high quality as possible.  It's not a small  job, and they take their responsiblity to their customers very seriously.  But, they are very interested in the conversations happening on blogs about their service (and others).  I agreed to post some responses from Tim (which he and I crafted together and he approved) on some of the blogs that are discussing this issue.  I will be honest, I am relatively new to blog-posting and realized after putting my name at the top of the posting and clicking on "submit comment" that this was not the best approach :)  I'm learning!  
 
However, I can assure you that the work that 41 Pounds is doing is top-quality, and their mission is simple:  help communities, help the environment and donate substantial amounts of money to non-profits aligned with their mission and goals.  I see many comments sent to Tim and his brothers on a regular basis from happy customers, as well as comments that were sent to 41 Pounds' non-profit partners.  As for showing customers the work they are doing through images online, that is something we can (and will) work on as we enhance the 41 Pounds website on an ongoing basis.

I hope this answers some of your questions, and I'll be happy to answer any others you have, as will Tim and his brothers.  These conversations are important to us.  You can find us on the web at www.GreenWaveStrategies.com if you would like to know more.

Best,
Debbie
