---
name: Greg Nelson
date: '2007-06-23T16:10:54-04:00'
url: http://www.usjunkmail.com
email: b47b5d54e10d1f9deb9bcaba3b3787d7
_id: 53ad2ed4-29d8-4216-bca6-7afe40064659
slug: "/junkmail/"
template: comment

---

To everyone,

USJunkmail.com has been helping consumers eliminate postal junk mail for over 3 years now. Many companies are legitimate; however, any company that specifically states that it will work on your behalf with regards to the DMA or other another organization is most likely misrepresenting what they can provide. Plain and simple, the DMA specifically states the following: 

"How do I get off mailing lists?
Use our online registration form.
You must register your name and address with MPS directly; third party requests cannot be processed."

As for companies that automatically bill you on behalf of the DMA frequently employ a procedure called "factoring". This is a terrible term in the credit card industry. What this means is that a company cannot forward your cc information to another company without the other company's prior approval and your approval. Some companies subtly slide this agreement into your contract; however, now your personal information has been freely distributed to a 3rd party marketing organization. Either way, policies and companies come and go, so you are best off following the proper procedures and protect your own identity.

Finally, watch out for the companies that state that they can do everything for you, but then a few months later, you will most likely begin receiving postcards that require your individual signature. What really happens is that they assume they can act on your behalf, but many direct mailers really are not interested in 3rd parties interfering with their databases.

www.USJunkmail.com states many of these facts clearly and for your full understanding. I have been with USJ for a few years now, and I can clearly see that they have properly researched the market. They conveniently direct you through the proper channels so that there is less likelihood of things not properly getting processed. The only other real reputable company I have seen in this industry is Stopthejunkmail.

Greg
