---
name: Marek Lugowski
date: '2007-11-28T11:53:18-05:00'
url: ''
email: a34adf987fde9598d7c95d8b2e23c5d2
_id: b28bdc94-9692-4c19-8000-c8e45e65764f
slug: '/its-all-text-v080/'
---

Nice work. Works flawlessly for me on Mac Os X 10.4.11 with Emacs 23 (Cocoa
version) and Firemacs plug in (for the Emacs keybindings in text areas and
input fields, esp. in Wikipedia), in Firefox 2.0.0.9

However, sorry to say, it is semi-broken in Firefox 2.0.0.10 on Windows XP
with Emacs 23 from CVS (GNU Emacs 23.0.0.1 (i386-mingw-nt5.1.2600) of
2007-08-18 on TPAD) and Firemacs. Basically, the edit button does not show up,
and there is no communication between the text area and Emacs. On startup
(with context menu, where the add-on shows correctly, as it does in
preferences), the content of the text area shows up in the Emacs buffer (in
correct encoding -- working with Wikipedia, I set it to UTF-8), but any
furhter edits in the text area are not propagated to the Emacs buffer, and any
further saved changes to the file are not propagated back to the text area...
So, work is possible by copying and pasting by hand. However, other than that,
it is very useful. Because I can use the power of Emacs to process the
Wikipedia text, and return it unmangled in UTF-8 back by copying and pasting
to Wikipedia. So, partial success. But it would be nice, if it played nice in
Windows as is does in Mac Os X. Perhaps the newest Firefox version broke it,
but I doubt it, as it was just a security update. Maybe it does not play nice
with Firemacs add-on on Windows? Anyway, thanks... -- Marek
