---
name: bgallia
date: '2015-11-05T23:29:00-05:00'
url: ''
email: 6b54e2cd32dbf343e42cd4cd1768c3cd
_id: 5075680e-9082-4a69-a098-358e2628d82d
slug: "/el-capitan-and-the-evils-of-openssl/"
template: comment

---

I don't have a El Capitan system to try this on, but you might want to try adding the certificate to the SecureTransport System.keychain as seems to be explained here:
https://derflounder.wordpress.com/2011/03/13/adding-new-trusted-root-certificates-to-system-keychain/

I would prefer avoiding Apple SecureTransport and the Apple provided curl when possible and use one compiled against libressl.

Apple's history of contributions to SSL/TLS includes "GOTO FAIL" which isn't very promising.  Also, Tim Cook can say all he wants about how having no back door is a must but when Apple is the last company to revoke bad actors from their root CA then I have a hard time believing they are serious about not having backdoors.  For example, leaving DigiNotar trusted for as long as they did still counts as a known backdoor even if not maliciously intended to be.  Despite that, they seem to continue that policy of maintaining the root CA file as an OS/firmware update which is only revised when the rest of the update passes QA.

Also, before someone comes back with that anything said bad about Apple is pro-PC, I am <em>NOT</em> saying Microsoft has been better about their SSL and CA handling.  Overall, I think the industry has failed in several ways with SSL/TLS.  Instead of security, we have been given convenience.  PGP's multi-signer web of trust model should have been part of the design of SSL.  Instead, a single CA signer per certificate was selected.  A SSH model of defaulting to non-trust and prompting for each new contact should have been considered as well.  At the very least, trusting each CA for the first time should have been prompted ("Do you want to trust SuperFish CA?  Y/N").

We are given by the industry both the downside of having over 90% of certificates signed by only four companies (of which some seem to be abusing our trust) while still also having the downside of silently trusting certificates signed by over 200 CAs.

curl also provides the "-k" or "--insecure" option for those that have given up on SSL/TLS providing protection against MiTM attacks anyways.  If the connection is going across an internal network physically under your control (or VPN connection), what is the worse that can happen?  :P
