---
id: '25'
title: Getting an iPod
date: '2006-11-07'

tags:
    - iPod
    - iriver
    - sony
    - Technology
    - toy
archive: true
---

Let's face it: Current digital players suck.
[iPods](http://www.apple.com/itunes/) suck.
[iRiver](http://www.iriveramerica.com/) sucks.
[Sony](http://www.google.com/search?q=sony&domains=boingboing.net&sitesearch=boingboing.net)
is a bunch of bastards.

Okay. Spleen has been vented. Let me catch my breath... _whew_.

In theory, digital players are the same. They play music files in a nice
portable form factor. They're like tape-cassette walk-men from the 80's. They
come in various shapes, sizes and the battery lasts a different amount of
time; but they're all play music. A few throw in a radio too, just for fun.

Until you look a little closer and look at the software. The evil evil _evil_
software.

## Topic Change!

By now, you should know that I use Linux. I don't like Microsoft Windows and
preferring something [sane](http://ubuntu.com/).

You probably also know I have lots of music. About 35 gigabytes. 8,600 songs.
I figured out how many minutes of music a had a couple years ago, and you'd
have to listen straight for many days with no break to hear every song in a
row.

This sets up what my situation is when I go looking for digital player
(again).

### Back to the story...

The iPod can work with Ubuntu[^1], but it isn't supported by
[Apple](http://apple.com/). The hardware is nice. The software is okay, but it
doesn't play [Ogg Vorbis](http://www.vorbis.com/). It's preferred format is
[AAC](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Audio_Coding). The ACC tools in
Linux aren't very good and I haven't tried using it yet. MP3s are supported,
but I can't stand them as a rule because all the encoders I have ever used
create high pitched artifacts that are painful for me to listen to.

iRiver has some nice hardware too. Having an FM tuner in your digital player
is nice. It supports Ogg Vorbis out of the box. It's a little pricey. None are
as big as I really want (60gig+). And I really want to play with a device
before I buy it; iRiver only has a few, usually older, models available in
stores. At the Apple store, I can play with an iPod and I have friends that
have them. Heck, my wife has one! But there is no Linux support. It's supposed
to work, but I really don't want my digital player to turn into an embedded
development project. I just want it to work.

Then there are things like Sony's players and Microsoft's
[Zune](http://www.defectivebydesign.org/topic/zune), which both are
[DRM'ed](http://defectivebydesign.org/) out the wazoo and therefor completely
useless.

Hmmâ€¦ no clear winners. A couple obvious losers. In addition, making a bad
choice can cause lots of trouble for me.

And then fortune smiled on me! My wife's 4gig iPod's battery died. Since it
was dead anyway, she gave me permission to play with it. This wasn't all that
bad for Robin. She got to look for new device online.

While she was looking at the various trade offs I previous looked at, and
cursing out Sony and other idiotic vendors, I played with
[Rockbox](http://rockbox.org/) using her pink iPod mini.

You know, I liked it! I got Oggs, it did what I wanted, it was hackable and
worked with Linux. It's user interface isn't the greatest and it has some
problems, but it's not bad. I was even able to compile my own rockbox firmware
and installed it easily.

In the end, I got Robin's pink iPod mini (second generation) and bought a new
battery for it for \$30 USD. Robin got a new 60gig (5th generation) iPod
Video. I encouraged her to get a bigger one so that when the battery dies,
I'll get that one. :-)

I hope my music collection fits in 60gigs in two years.

[^1]:
    [Ubuntu Forums](http://ubuntuforums.org/) has
    [hints](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=181668) about using iPods
    with Ubuntu.
