---
date: '2007-12-16'
id: '83'
slug: '/bang-bang/'
tags:
    - home
title: 'Bang! Bang!'
---

So, me and my wife got home from Ikea with a new Billy bookshelf for the
dinning room (aka, book room \#2 -- book room \#1 is the living room). We
lucked out and found a spot nearly in front of our house, right on the outside
of the curve that our house in on.

We unloaded the shelf (it weighs a bloody ton) and had just finished getting
it together when I heard a bang noise. I thought perhaps the storm door was
open and the wind pushed the door open or shut.

<!-- more -->

I went to the door, checked the storm door; it was closed. The wind was fierce
outside and I could see snow starting to stick. It had been snowing on and off
all day and this is the second time it had started to stick.

[![The damage to the
car](https://farm3.static.flickr.com/2120/2118124196_01f142dc27_m.jpg)](https://www.flickr.com/photos/docwhat/tags/bangbang/)The
Damage

I shrugged and went back inside to resume working on the bookshelves and
putting together the extensions to make the bookshelves even taller.

After a while, I heard another bang; it sounded like the storm door as well. I
asked Robin, "I keep hearing that noise. What could it be?" She thought it was
the storm door. "Can't be I checked it. It was latched."

She gets up and goes to check. I hear her fiddle with the door and then I hear
her yell out, "Our car was just hit!".

Here is what happened. Apparently the first bang was the car in front of ours
being hit. There was a note and dent on his car. The second bang was our car
being smacked into. There were two people outside asking if the white car was
ours. Yes indeedy, it was.

I went outside, sent their plate and car details to Jott, checked the damage
(driver door was badly dented and scraped and the mirror housing was cracked,
but the mirror seemed fine) and invited them in to our warm house to swap
information. While Robin gathered the info I excused myself to go move the
car.

I got outside and my neighbor pointed to a mini-van pointing the opposite way
on the street, "You see that mini-van? It nearly hit your car, it spun around
and stopped where it is!" I just stared. I decided I better move the car fast.
I was on the side walk, waiting for the 4 cars to go by when... bang! Another
car hit our car.

I just couldn't believe it. Two guys get out and ask whose car is that. My
neighbor just points at me. I turn to the two guys and say, "Welcome to the
party!" I send their plate and car details to Jott, check out the new dents
and scrapes on the rear driver side door and get in the car. And as quickly as
I can, I park on the other side of the street.

When I go to cross back, I have to wait for huge salt truck to go by. "Thank
god!" I yell. The guy stops to look at me. I tell him about my car just being
hit twice in 5 minutes. He tips the bed on the truck back a little and pours
some extra salt on the spot.

I thank him and walk across the street. The whole street is
[black ice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_ice); I nearly slip twice
walking across. I never slip when walking on ice (even in the flip-flops,
which I was wearing).

I go back inside and invite the two new participants to our little party.

After everyone had left, when Robin explained all this to our insurance they
couldn't believe it.

Ciao!

LINK: [Photos](https://www.flickr.com/photos/docwhat/tags/bangbang/)
