---
id: '28'
title: Writing Practice
date: '2006-10-11'

tags:
    - Writing
archived: true
---

I started this blog for a
[couple of reasons](http://docwhat.org/2006/09/moving-to-a-blog/). One of the
reasons is that I wanted to get better at writing.

IRL[^1], I'm not good at explaining thoughts as they pop up. I tend to think
about stuff faster than I can talk or I jump from subject to subject, I get
sidetracked, forget what I've already talked about or I forget who I'm talking
to and what they know or don't know already. Obviously, talking to me can be
exacerbating though occasionally amusing.

<!-- more -->

The (primary) reason I have these problems is that my brain is usually zooming
off sideways while I'm trying to talk forward thanks to the miracle of
[ADD](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attention-deficit_disorder).

Having ADD means I might have a hard time staying focused on things for more
than a moment. I interrupt a lot. I get bored easily. I seem hyperactive at
times because I change gears all the time.

ADD has it's benefits though. I'm pretty creative. I have the ability to come
at problems and situations from lots directions, many in completely new and
weird ways. I can focus on the whole of a problem _and_ the details at the
same time. I go through phases where I can juggle several tasks at the same
time and do as well with them as I would if I did them serially.

And ADD makes my writing a little strange.

ADD makes my writing choppy; I leave off parts that I thought of but couldn't
get my fingers to type as fast as my head.

ADD is good for editing other people's writing, especially when intended for
the web. I get bored if a paragraph is too long; opening sentences should clue
me into the content so I can decide if I want to read it. These sort of
changes makes reading on the web much easier.

Which brings me to another reason to practice writing; writing is a form of
user interface. You can improve the usability of writing just like designing
the interface for a web page or web application. You move a button or a
sentence forward to make it more visible or more likely the user will click on
it or think about it.

In fact, I'd argue most things are a form of user interface. Menus, signs,
roads, programming code, music scores, music, movies, photography, network
protocols, guinea pigsâ€¦

Practicing writing will, in theory, help me think about and design user
interfaces, which is something I like doing a lot.

[^1]: In Real Life
