---
author: docwhat
categories:
    - docwhat
date: '2009-06-03'

id: '377'
tags:
    - reviews
    - video games
title: 'Sims 3: Yay!'
archived: true
---

<iframe style="width:120px;height:240px;" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?ServiceVersion=20070822&OneJS=1&Operation=GetAdHtml&MarketPlace=US&source=ss&ref=as_ss_li_til&ad_type=product_link&tracking_id=thedocwha-20&language=en_US&marketplace=amazon&region=US&placement=B00166N6SA&asins=B00166N6SA&linkId=2da77d78317dc33bf21144e10adf764c&show_border=true&link_opens_in_new_window=true"></iframe>

The Sims 3 for the Mac (and I guess Windows too, but who uses that?) and the
iPod Touch (and I guess the iPhone too, but who uses that?) was released
yesterday.

I got my copy of The Sims 3 (Collector's Edition) yesterday and spent a happy
evening playing it.

The game is much better than The Sims 2; you have a real sense that you're
part of a larger world. You can drive, jog or bike places. You can visit
people in the park, go read a book at the library, or go shopping. Everything
is connected.

The install took forever and I wasn't amused to find an update waiting
immediately but that's just a one-time cost; I'll live.

The collector's edition came with a cute Plumbob USB drive. It's shiny and
green: what's not to like? ~~I put photos on flickr for the curious.~~

The biggest change is the way the whole "buy downloadable content" is now
integrated much more tightly into the product. It is very obvious that they
are expecting to make money with lots of micro-payments. They have a store and
an exchange for user uploaded elements.

I haven't figured out how to make custom elements, but I'm sure something will
be revealed soon.

![Sims 3
Plumbob](3589583760_9e8607a6b1_o.jpg 'Sims 3 USB Plumbob')

The copy protection requires the DVD to be in the tray at all times which I
hate. I will probably download a no-cd hack when one becomes available. It's
possible I won't need one since it runs in a _Transgaming_ windows environment
and mostly likely is not talking to the hardware directly.

As a Mac user the fallout from [SecureRom in SPORE](/spore-drm/) wasn't that
big a deal, though some of the initial limitations were not nice.

I also went and got The Sims 3 for the iPhone as well. It seems to be much
more stripped down that the full version but still seems pretty capable. I
haven't played enough yet to tell, though.

Unrelated to EA is that I went to buy the strategy guide PDF from PrimaGuides
using the 25% coupon included in the game. I thought I'd see if using an
electronic copy was better or worse than a paper copy.

The stupid website wouldn't accept the discount code and it kept adding on
this bogus "Extended Download Service" which was just a way of saying, "if you
lose your PDF we'll let you download it again for up to 2 years." What
bullshit.

-   [official site](http://www.thesims3.com/)
-   [on Amazon](https://amzn.to/2BPgXHi)
