---
name: docwhat
date: '2007-02-15T09:14:00-05:00'
url: http://docwhat.org/
email: 4e8076a0fdac6b8f284d8b316efdf7f3
_id: 2c4d9767-a7fd-46e9-8ec5-964a41d10d7c
slug: '/its-all-text/'
---

Hi Peter!

I don't have much experience with moinmoin and cannot think of an installation
I could play with. If you have one, post it.

This feature is there, sort of... It's hard to make it as nice as I would like
because I cannot tell when the editor returns. :-/

Here is the use case: You visit a page with your typical
compose->preview->edit->submit pattern. It sounds like moinmoin is like that.

1. You edit it via "It's All Text!" starting your editor of choice.
2. You compose your message and hit save, but leave the editor open.
3. You hit "preview" on the web page.
4. You examine it and the press the "It's All Text!" button. If you now have
   two editors open to the same file, then close one of them.
5. You make changes in your editor based on the preview and save.
6. The changes should be reflected in the textarea.

Step 5) is needed because the textarea is not monitored for changes until you
edit at least once. This behavior is changing because it's hard to make it
maximally useful and keep it from being too confusing to normal users at the
same time. Especially since I cannot tell when the editor quits.

Actually, it would be useful if there was a menu item to let you start the
monitoring, instead of step 5). Or actually to pick the file to load into it.

Hmm....

Re: loosing your work.

As soon as you see that message about a session time out, _stop using your
browser_. The file you submitted is still in your FireFox profile directory!
It's in a subdirectory called 'itsalltext' and will be named something like
'docwhat.org.1j2t2z2t1z.txt' (the example for this site) or if it is an older
version of It's All Text! then it may only have the garbage letters.

The old copy of the file isn't deleted until you quit FireFox _or_ you
re-visit the page.

Ciao!
