---
id: '456'
title: The Party of Stupid
date: '2009-09-26'
author: docwhat

slug: /the-party-of-stupid/
categories:
    - docwhat
tags:
    - politics
archived: true
---

_[Rob Landley](http://landley.net/) has written a very good description of how
the Republican party is discombobulating. He gave me permission to reproduce
it here; any formatting errors are mine._

> Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere
> the battle is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few
> calculations beforehand. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few
> calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all! It is by
> attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose.
>
> He who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory.
>
> <cite>Sun Tsu, The Art of War</cite>

<!-- more -->The Republican party is not just the party of "no", it's the party of "stupid".

You can trace the "party of stupid" trend back to Ronald Regan, an
Altzheimer's patient who Dave Barry described as "napping towards glory". But
it got _bad_ under the man who put the "duh" in W.

George W. Bush was not a smart man. That was obvious (and widely remarked
upon) during the 2000 election. He had a certain animal cunning, but that's
not the same as intelligence. "The Decider" was not a thinker, he did not
enjoy solving problems and seldom if ever pondered the ramifications of his
actions. The entire Iraq War was condemned by the simple failure to even once
consider the question "then what?" They didn't have a _bad_ plan, they
literally had _no_ plan.

When he couldn't simply lash out at a problem with overwhelming force, his
only other option was to hunker down and wait for it to go away, whether
reading "My Pet Goat" to school children while the World Trade Center burned,
leaving Bin Laden hiding in a cave through the end of his presidency, or
refusing to cut short his endless vacations for Hurricane Katrina.

An old military adage is that amateurs study tactics, the experienced study
strategy, and professionals study logistics. These people **did not study**.
They waged two wars plagued by constant failures of "intelligence" in more
than one sense, and kept threatening to invade more (Syria and Iran near the
top of the list).

The self-styled "education president" championed "Intelligent Design" while
dismissing climate change. (His legacy in education was the disastrous No
Child Left Behind act, perhaps a response to the way education left him
behind. Ask any teacher how slowing the entire class down to the speed of the
slowest student worked out in practice.)

He was _viciously_ anti-intellectual. He didn't value the advice of smart
people (nor did he want to be surrounded by them, choosing instead "Heck of a
Job Brownie", the "Duct Tape and Plastic Sheeting" guy. He especially
distrusted science and scientists, ordering them to change or bury their
conclusions when he didn't like them.

Back in the 1970's, the long-running BBC science fiction program "Doctor Who"
contained the quote "The very powerful and the very stupid have one thing in
common. The don't alter their views to fit the facts. They alter the facts to
fit their views. (Which can be very uncomfortable if you happen to be one of
the facts that needs altering.)" Bush was very powerful, _and_ very stupid. He
put a man in charge of NASA, Michael Griffin, who not only eliminated weather
monitoring programs because he (like Bush) didn't believe in global warming
and didn't want to collect data that might contradict this belief, but who
publicly _admitted_ it.

What he did respect was wealth and power: obvious, measurable, superficial
signs of success. Thus his energy policy was written by oil industry
lobbyists, even as the price of gasoline neared \$4/gallon. His fed chairman
came from Goldman Sachs, and due to insufficient regulation and even less
enforcement that Fed chairman needed to give an enormous bailout to his former
employer (and selected other companies, but _not_ to Goldman's largest
competitor which was allowed to go under) towards the end of the
administration. But Bush thought corporations could do no wrong (since they
were the ones who understood stuff he couldn't be bothered to ask about), and
thus everything must be deregulated and privatized from the military through
the FDA, with disastrous consequences. (Anyone remember the massive pet food
recall because nothing had been tested for contamination? We deployed
_mercenaries_ in Iraq, from Blackwater to Wackenhut: forget about Abu Ghiraib
"naked prisoner human pyramid" stuff for a moment, is it really a good idea to
outsource the functions of the US military to organizations that answer to the
highest bidder? It's like the companies that outsource all their employees to
India and then are _shocked_ when overseas competitors emerge. The scandals
ran together to the point it was hard to even remember them all.)

This man was in charge of the Republican party for eight years. This attitude
shaped everything. Being smart and educated held no weight, science was a
matter of opinion. And it left its mark. The people in charge now are trying
to cash in, just about exclusively, on the Stupid Vote.

Half the "appeal" of Sarah Palin is that she's similarly convinced that
anything she doesn't understand can't really be all that important. Does Joe
Wilson really _believe_ Obama was lying, or is he simply trying to appeal to
the willfully uninformed and easily confused?

Lincoln was the one who pointed out you can fool some of the people all of the
time, but he didn't consider it a _good_ thing. His party's current leaders
(Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, and Bill O'Reilley) have made a _career_ out of
it.

I really hope these guys go the way of the Federalists and the Whigs, and
maybe the Blue Dogs can split off to become the new opposition party.
Unfortunately, our system has a whole lot more inertia baked into it than in
1861, and Lincolns are hard to come by. Our winner take all voting system
brings out the loonies during the primaries, and trying to fix the electoral
college and such seems out of fashion again.

\[[original](http://www.landley.net/notes.html#22-09-2009)\]
