---
id: '86'
title: Verizon ineptitude
date: '2008-02-14'
template: post
slug: /verizon-sucks/
tags:
    - home
    - technology
archived: true
---

My server has been down for about a 6 days. The short story of why my site has
been down is because Verizon sucks. The long story however...

I discovered on Thursday (Feb 7th) that my server,
[gerf.org](http://gerf.org/) was down. I went home to check it out and
discovered the dreaded blinking DSL light.

I called up Verizon's Business DSL Support and to put in a trouble ticket. I
have to do my usual song and dance to get around the fact that the Verizon
phone system think I'm a non-business customer and wants to redirect me to the
residential support the moment it knows who I am. I have been told this is
because the phone number I was given for my DSL (which is a dry loop; it has
no phone service, just DSL) used to belong to a residential customer and the
system is confused. I was told they would fix this when I signed up in
November.<!-- more -->

The guy I talk to checked a bunch of things and in the end said that while he
could just barely detect a signal from my equipment. Which is odd because I'm
very close to the C.O. and the signal usually is pretty darn strong. He says
he'll put in a tech ticket for Friday and a tech should come by and possibly
need access to the house. This isn't a big deal because I can walk 10 minutes
down a hill to get to my house from work.

However, I don't get a call. I don't get anything. Around 4pm on Friday, I
call and ask what's going on. The guy I talk to says it looks like the trouble
ticket was just closed. No reason or anything put in the ticket. He starts to
look around and discovers that my line was disabled deliberately. Because I
hadn't paid my bills, except that I have and he can see that I have paid my
bills. Either way, he says I have to talk to the "local phone company" to fix
this, the business DSL department cannot see the local info.

Me: "I'm sorry? I have to call? You cannot call them yourself and fix this?"

Them: "No."

Me: "Can I speak to a supervisor?"

Them: "No."

Me: "So let me get this straight? I'm paying extra for business support and
this is what I get? I have to do this myself?"

Them: "FCC rules won't let us talk to the local telephone company."

Too bad I didn't have Internet connectivity to look this bit of bullshit up.

Anyway, he gives me some allegedly local numbers and I start calling. It takes
four hours before I'm done with this. The phone system doesn't want me to get
to a local phone representative. When I get a local phone representative they
are very quick to transfer me to someone non-local. I do my best to remain
calm and not to take out my growing frustration and anger on the people
working for a broken system.

I finally get a guy, Joe Hinkle, who is only one state over (West Virginia).
He manages to get me the right department and stays on the line as that
department tries to figure out what happens.

The story, as told to me by Verizon, is that the phone number they were using
to track my account belonged to someone named Ester (should they tell me this
info?). Ester canceled her account with Verizon in August of last year.
However, Verizon was still billing her. So her mother called up and finally
got them to stop billing her, etc. Unfortunately for me, the system decided
that my phone service had to be terminated to make the billing stop.

I'm told that it is entirely a billing problem and that nobody can start
working on fixing the problem until billing fixes their problem. However,
billing won't be back to Monday. At which point gerf.org will have been down 5
days minimum.

I double check this. There is nothing that they can do (oh, except order
another line from Verizon, which was a non-starter. How stupid do they think I
am? Obviously dumb enough to stay with them!)

This is the end. I went to the T-Mobile store in my neighborhood, and bought
T-mobile phones (my wife and I both got Motorola KRZR K1 phones) and got an
internet package so I can still have internet connectivity.

On Monday, I canceled the Verizon service. The retention agent was super nice
of course, but screw that. The time to fix the problems was Thursday, not 5
days later.

I called up [Speakeasy](http://speakeasy.net/) because a friend said that they
could call speakeasy's tech support and say stuff like, "You have a flapping
route" and they respond with "Oh, thanks! We'll fix that right away" instead
of "Duh?"

I was impressed with everything so far; they have a status page that shows the
state of the order, including equipment arriving, etc. It even has the status
of the mail-in rebate for the modem and all my routing and IP information.
Cool! (Though why didn't they just give me the modem for free instead of via a
stupid mail-in rebate?)

gerf.org is temporarily being hosted by a friend, I should be up and running
on Speakeasy by the 27th.

Hopefully.

Ciao!

**UPDATE: 2008-04-08** Well, apparently they still had to try to screw me over
one more time. They tried to bill me for more money. True, it was only \$28.07
but by this time it was the principle of the thing.

I called the up and the stupid voice system didn't know my account number
(it's been closed, don'tcha know). I managed to remember how to get through
the damn thing without an account number ("Try another way" followed by "I
don't know").

Finally I made it to billing where after a little detective work on their part
they figured out that they were trying to bill me for the days that I had no
network connection _and_ 3 days after I closed my account!

She repeated the mantra of all computer enslaved humans, "I can't change it
once it's in the system." Fortunately, she agreed to just adjust the money
since it was small enough she could do that.

What a horrible horrible company.
